spells:
1. Change steelskin to allow a target.  Big change, yeah.  I get it.  Clerics need something (they need a lot of things pre-legend) and this would go a long way.  It would also address the phenomenon that all tanks "need" to buy the steelskin rank in order to be any good.
2. At one point I idea'd a spell called Rise that stands up a sitting group member.  It shouldn't work on resting, though, just sitting.  I think it should be a cleric or a white robe spell.
3. Let spirits and corpses (and elementals, and mage pets, etc) use the portals created by Astral Portal. 

skills:
1. There's two scout instincts with nearly identical uses - the dart(via mockingbird) and peck(via shrike) abilities both do a small bit of damage in melee.  Take one of them, probably the lower-level one (peck) and make it scale by level a little bit (maybe like magic missile, since I think thats how the piranha ability works too).  Take the second of them and redo it completely.  Let it give you an ability that has a chance (similar to dodge?) that lets a sky scout keep shooting even when engaged.
2. The swallow instinct gives the migrate ability that is essentially a group-wide can-fly, except that it doesn't work on corpses, even from legendary animate.  This actually seems like a bug more than an improvement.  Since those corpses are basically group members, per the documentation, and get other groupwide buffs, they should get the can_fly too.
3. Some skills, like concentration and field medic, don't have success messages (as far as I know).  This has led to confusion over what triggers them, and therefore how to practice them.  There's a lot of misinformation and rumors over how to practice these skills.  Seems like an easy way to fix this would be for there to be a success message for when the skill "hits".  For example, "Your casting is nearly interrupted, but your devotion to the healing arts allows you to see your magic through."

ranks:
1. More ranks in high-level zones.  Seems silly that high-level folks need to "run ranks" in lower-level zones.  An idea that doesn't require a ton of rework would be to raise the cap on "max rank" for certain end-boss type mobs to something like 5-10 times the current amount.  The rank still has to rechange, like it does now, but instead of the max being 2% around rank 20, it would be like 10%-20%.  I'm thinking like big dragons that are deeper in zones (not ones you can go straight to), final bosses, etc.
2. Class-specific non-legend ranks.  This could be a way to mitigate some proposed changes to classes (like my steelskin change, above).  Maybe clerics have to buy a non-legend rank that makes a handful of spells targetable, like steelskin, spiritual armor, fortify self, for example.

general game:
1. Would it be too much to give scouts an ability to conjure pets like mages?  The idea of an animal companion for a ranger/scout/hunter class is pretty consistent across the genre.  Obviously this would require a lot of work to create the pets, figure out how to scale them, and make their rank trees.  I volunteer to write up some ideas and work on it however is appropriate.  I know there's probably not a lot of people calling for a scout buff, but it would help sky scouts while leveling up (pet could tank a bit, for example) and they could provide some small group buffs, healing, etc - basically like how the mage pets work.
2. Something to make the world easier to explore for folks who don't know their way around the world, even those who have been playing a while.  A shopkeeper that sells 'elaborate' maps, or maybe kender guides who will accompany you to a zone for a fee (maybe a short list of zones, like other cities, other continents, or maybe famous dragon lairs).  More signposts along roads?
3. I had an idea to normalize the races based on how many ranks you would have to spend to increase stats/abilities/etc from a base point, like human.  Half-ogres get +2 dam?  That costs 7 ranks.  Then each race should theoretically total to the same amount and each exotic race should total to the same thing, but a bit higher.  ->If<- ranks are basically fair, then doing this would expose any inequities between the races and would make it much simpler to balance them.